---
layout: post
title: Bash bangs usage
date: 2009-10-15 08:10:27
lang: en
categories: blog
tags: 
 - bash
 - astuce
 - commandline
---


In Bash, one may use !!, !\* and !:2 to
get quicker access to previously typed commands or part of commands. "!!"
stands for the last command, "!\*" for the last command without the first term
and !:2 is the third argument of the previous command. Let's have some
examples:

    raph@machine$ ls books/
    foo.txt bar.txt

    raph@machine$ !!
    ls books/ ## you notice that Bash outputs immediately the expanded command ## 
    foo.txt bar.txt

    raph@machine$ ls books/foo.txt foo.txt 

    raph@machine$ head !*
    head books/foo.txt foo.txt
    # first lines of foo.txt here # 

    raph@machine$ wc -l !*
    wc -l foo.txt
    # number of lines in foo.txt # 

    raph@machine$ file !:2
    file foo.txt
    # output of command file #

As one may see, !:2 is useful when some options have been given between the
command and the filename. If I had used "file !\*" instead of "file !:2", bash
would have tried to execute command file on "-l" and "foo.txt". The "-l, file
not found" error message would then occur. 

I admit that !:2 -- or, more generally, !:n -- is a bit complicated if n greater
than 2, because one would not want to manually count the number of options ...
But it works like a charm in the sequence above with "wc -l" and "head". 

The !! is very useful when you are the administrator of your computer and you
forget to use sudo at the beginning of a command. Just type "sudo !!" after the
"permission denied" message and you're done ... (indeed, CTRL+A may also help
you).
