---
layout: post
title: How-to flash an a6km bios
date: 2009-06-26 15:22:38
lang: en
categories: blog
tags: 
 - astuce
 - asus
---

<p>I'm the owner, for three years now, of
an Asus laptop (ref : A6km Q007h). It came with Windows XP, which I kept until
May 2007 or so, when I decided that the dual-boot time was over and I could only
use Ubuntu Linux. I tried Ubuntu Dapper Drake first, then I upgraded directly to
Feisty Fawn (good version). I followed the release cycle, upgrading to Gutsy
Gibbon and Hardy Heron. Then, for different reasons, I installed an ArchLinux,
which is still my only distro at the moment.</p> <p>The main problem when you
use Linux on non-evolutive hardware such as a my laptop is that you are
compelled to "tell yourself that you don't really need [some] features" (<a
href="http://linuxhaters.blogspot.com/2008/06/how-to-be-linux-user.html">Linux
hater's blog</a>). In May 2007, for example, the webcam on my model was not
working (it now works, due to clever reverse-engineering from users, not thanks
to Asus...). And, more annoying, if any USB device was plugged at startup, the
boot process hanged with no error message. It means that you have to unplug your
USB mouse or hard-disk at powering down, or check it when switching the laptop
on. </p> <p>The problem lies in the buggy bios version. DSDT tables may be
used to correct it -- at least, some users claim it worked for them -- or one
should downgrade its BIOS. I have only figured out today how to do it -- yes,
shame on me. My difficulty was to know how to have the file visible from the
bios : CD/DVD were not solutions (since they are not recognize by the BIOS for
flash), floppy was not present (it's a laptop). My previous attempts with hard
disk FAT partitions failed, probably because I used FAT 16 (?). As far as USB
key are concerned, I thougt they were not appropriate on to do it with ASUS
BIOS.</p> <p>Flashing a BIOS is dangerous, do it at your own risks, backup
your data before.</p> <p>Here's the procedure, step by step
:</p> <ul><li>You may use a USB key, or any other FAT32-formatted disk you
have</li> <li>Download the correct (and old - 2005 !) version : <a
href="http://people.bath.ac.uk/enxspd/laptop/A6Km0202AS.zip">link</a> (thanks,
<a href="http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Asus_A6km">Arch
Wiki</a>)</li> <li>Unzip the file on the usb key</li> <li>Reboot and press
'F2' at startup, to enter BIOS option</li> <li>Find "Easy
Flash"</li> <li>If you're doing it right, you may see A: and C:. Choose C:
with arrows</li> <li>Press 'Enter' and follow the
instructions.</li> </ul> The process was quick and easy. I plugged my USB
mouse (though I don't use it very much those days) and rebooted : it works !

Note : I also discovered, while wandering my BIOS options, that a USB
key is listed as ... harddisk drive instead of "removable device" (important
to try a linux distro on a key).
